#What is Java?
Java is a programming language which is object oriented by nature.

1. It is owned by Oracle.
2. It is open-source and free
3. Java is an object oriented language which gives a clear structure to programs 
and allows code to be reused, lowering development costs.

But wait, what is the history of java?
1. Java was developed by James Gosling, who is also known as the father of java,
and his team ( also known as green team ) at Sun Microsystems 
(which is now a subsidiary of Oracle Corporation) and released in 1995

2. First it was called as "Greentalk" and It was originally designed for interactive television, 
but it was too advanced technology for the digital cable television industry at the time.

3. However, it was best suited for internet programming. 

4. After some time The name "Greentalk" was changed to "Oak", 
and then in 1995, it was finally renamed to "Java"!

5. But why Java?
Java is an island in Indonesia where the first coffee was produced (called Java coffee). 
It is a kind of espresso bean.
Java name was chosen by James Gosling while having a cup of coffee nearby his office.

#Why coffee Logo?
The Java logo is prototyped as a blue coffee cup with red steam above it. 
The logo was a recognition for the Java engineers, who have a lot of coffee 
while developing the Java programming language. 
The coffee that they have consumed was Java coffee beans. It is a variety of coffee.

#What is JDK?
JDK, or Java Development Kit, consist of tools that are used to develop and run Java code. 
Before develop and run Java code, you should install it in your computer or system.
JDK consists of JRE and Java development tools.

JRE or Java Runtime Environment is a package that provides an environment to only run 
the Java program on your machine. It is only used to run Java programs.

JDT or Java Development tools consist of many tools like 
compiler, debugger, and other development tools.

To run code, we need JVM. JVM in each OS is different and to running Java, 
We require an JVM compatible with the operating system.
JVM is nothing but a interpreter

#Why is Java platform-independent?
Java is platform-independent because it uses a virtual machine.
Bytecodes are effectively platform-independent. 
The virtual machine takes care of the differences between the bytecodes for the different platforms,
thus JVM is platform dependent!

#How a Java Program compiles?
Java code involves a two-step execution, 
first through an OS-independent compiler; 
and second, in a virtual machine (JVM) which is custom-built 
for every operating system.

First, the source ‘.java’ file is passed through the compiler, 
which then encodes the source code into a machine-independent encoding,
known as Bytecode ( Generates ‘.Class’ files )

The class files generated by the compiler are independent of the machine or the OS,
which allows them to be run on any system.
To run, the main class file (the class that contains the method main) is passed 
to the JVM and then goes through three main stages before the 
final machine code is executed. 

#These stages are:
1. ClassLoader
The main class is loaded into the memory bypassing its ‘.class’ file to the JVM.
All the other classes referenced in the program are loaded through the class loader.
A class loader, itself an object, creates a flat namespace of class bodies
that are referenced by a string name. 

2. Bytecode Verifier
After the bytecode of a class is loaded by the class loader, 
it has to be inspected by the bytecode verifier,whose job 
is to check that the instructions don’t perform damaging actions.
Like ->
Variables are initialized before they are used.
Local variable accesses fall within the runtime stack, etc

3. Just-In-Time Compiler
This is the final stage encountered by the java program, 
and its job is to convert the loaded bytecode into machine code.
It's main purpose is to do heavy optimizations in performance.
